Add MUI best practices, explain benefits of using MUI more (#158)
docker/extensions-sdk: docs/design/mui-best-practices.md

---
title: MUI Best Practices
description: Guidelines for using MUI to maximise compatibility with Docker Desktop
keywords: Docker, extensions, mui, theme, theming, material-ui, material
---

# MUI Best Practices

> This article assumes you're following our recommended practice by using our [MUI theme](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@docker/docker-mui-theme). Following the steps below will maximise compatibility with Docker Desktop and minimise the work you need to do as an extension author. They should be considered supplementary to the non-MUI-specific guidelines found in the [UI kit article](ui-kit.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article assumes you're following our recommended practice by using our [MUI theme](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@docker/docker-mui-theme). Following the steps below maximises compatibility with Docker Desktop and minimises the work you need to do as an extension author. They should be considered supplementary to the non-MUI-specific guidelines found in the [UI kit article](ui-kit.md).
```

## Assume the theme can change at any time

> It’s tempting to fine-tune your UI with precise colors, offsets and font sizings to make it look as attractive as possible. Please resist that temptation. Any specialisations you make today will be relative to the current MUI theme, and likely will look worse when the theme changes. Any part of the theme might change without warning, including (but not limited to):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resist the temptation to fine-tune your UI with precise colors, offsets and font sizings to make it look as attractive as possible. Any specialisations you make today will be relative to the current MUI theme, and may look worse when the theme changes. Any part of the theme might change without warning, including (but not limited to):
```

-  The font, or font sizes
-  Border thicknesses or styles

> -  Colors, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Colors:
```

   -  Our palette members (e.g. `red-100`) could change their RGB values
   -  The semantic colors (e.g. `error`, `primary`, `textPrimary`, etc) could be changed to use a different member of our palette
   -  Background colors (e.g. those of the page, or of dialogs) could change

> -  Spacings, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Spacings:
```

>    -  The size of the basic unit of spacing (exposed via `theme.spacing`) - for instance, we could allow users to customise the density of the UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  The size of the basic unit of spacing,(exposed via `theme.spacing`. For instance, we may allow users to customise the density of the UI
```

   -  The default spacing between paragraphs or grid items

The best way to build your UI, so that it’s robust against future theming changes, is to:

-  Override the default styling as little as possible.

> -  Prefer semantic typography. e.g. use `Typography`s or `Link`s with appropriate `variant`s instead of using typographical HTML elements (`<a>`, `<p>`, `<h1>`, etc) directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Use semantic typography. e.g. use `Typography`s or `Link`s with appropriate `variant`s instead of using typographical HTML elements (`<a>`, `<p>`, `<h1>`, etc) directly.
```

> -  Prefer canned sizes. e.g. use `size="small"` on buttons, or `fontSize="small"` on icons, instead of specifying sizes in pixels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Use canned sizes. e.g. use `size="small"` on buttons, or `fontSize="small"` on icons, instead of specifying sizes in pixels.
```

-  Prefer semantic colors. e.g. use `error` or `primary` over explicit color codes.

> -  Write as little CSS as possible; prefer to write semantic markup instead. e.g. if you want to space out paragraphs of text, use the `paragraph` prop on your `Typography` instances. If you want to space out something else, use a `Stack` or `Grid` with the default spacing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Write as little CSS as possible. Write semantic markup instead. For example, if you want to space out paragraphs of text, use the `paragraph` prop on your `Typography` instances. If you want to space out something else, use a `Stack` or `Grid` with the default spacing.
```

> -  Prefer visual idioms you’ve seen in the Docker Desktop UI, since these are the main ones we’ll test any theme changes against.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Use visual idioms you’ve seen in the Docker Desktop UI, since these are the main ones we’ll test any theme changes against.
```

## When you go custom, centralise it

> Sometimes, you’ll need a piece of UI that doesn’t exist in our design system. In that case, we recommend that you first reach out to us. We may already have something in our internal design system, or we may be able to expand our design system to accommodate your use case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes you’ll need a piece of UI that doesn’t exist in our design system. If so, we recommend that you first reach out to us. We may already have something in our internal design system, or we may be able to expand our design system to accommodate your use case.
```

> If, after doing the above, you decide to build it yourself, try and define the new UI in a reuseable fashion. If you define your custom UI in just one place, it’ll make it easier to change in the future if our core theme changes. You could use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you still decide to build it yourself after contacting us, try and define the new UI in a reuseable fashion. If you define your custom UI in just one place, it’ll make it easier to change in the future if our core theme changes. You could use:
```
